## Questions on Object Oriented Programming

#### Q1:What's the output?

```js
class Chameleon {
  static colorChange(newColor) {
    this.newColor = newColor;
    return this.newColor;
  }

  constructor({ newColor = 'green' } = {}) {
    this.newColor = newColor;
  }
}

const freddie = new Chameleon({ newColor: 'purple' });
console.log(freddie.colorChange('orange'));
```

- A: `orange`
- B: `purple`
- C: `green`
- D: `TypeError`

**Answer**:

Answer: D

The `colorChange` function is static. Static  methods are designed to live only on the constructor in which they are  created, and cannot be passed down to any children or called upon class  instances. Since `freddie` is an instance of class Chameleon, the function cannot be called upon it. A `TypeError` is thrown.

#### Q2:What's the output?

```js
function Person(firstName, lastName) {
  this.firstName = firstName;
  this.lastName = lastName;
}

const member = new Person('Lydia', 'Hallie');
Person.getFullName = function() {
  return `${this.firstName} ${this.lastName}`;
};

console.log(member.getFullName());
```

- A: `TypeError`
- B: `SyntaxError`
- C: `Lydia Hallie`
- D: `undefined` `undefined`

**Answer**:

Answer: A

In JavaScript, functions are objects, and therefore, the method `getFullName` gets added to the constructor function object itself. For that reason, we can call `Person.getFullName()`, but `member.getFullName` throws a `TypeError`.

If you want a method to be available to all object instances, you have to add it to the prototype property:

```js
Person.prototype.getFullName = function() {
  return `${this.firstName} ${this.lastName}`;
};
```

#### Q3:What's the output?

```js
function Person(firstName, lastName) {
  this.firstName = firstName;
  this.lastName = lastName;
}

const lydia = new Person('Lydia', 'Hallie');
const sarah = Person('Sarah', 'Smith');

console.log(lydia);
console.log(sarah);
```

- A: `Person {firstName: "Lydia", lastName: "Hallie"}` and `undefined`
- B: `Person {firstName: "Lydia", lastName: "Hallie"}` and `Person {firstName: "Sarah", lastName: "Smith"}`
- C: `Person {firstName: "Lydia", lastName: "Hallie"}` and `{}`
- D: `Person {firstName: "Lydia", lastName: "Hallie"}` and `ReferenceError`

**Answer**:

Answer: A

For `sarah`, we didn't use the `new` keyword. When using `new`, `this` refers to the new empty object we create. However, if you don't add `new`, `this` refers to the **global object**!

We said that `this.firstName` equals `"Sarah"` and `this.lastName` equals `"Smith"`. What we actually did, is defining `global.firstName = 'Sarah'` and `global.lastName = 'Smith'`. `sarah` itself is left `undefined`, since we don't return a value from the `Person` function.

###### All object have prototypes.

- A: true
- B: false

**Answer**:

Answer: B

All objects have prototypes, except for the **base object**. The base object is the object created by the user, or an object that is created using the `new` keyword. The base object has access to some methods and properties, such as `.toString`. This is the reason why you can use built-in JavaScript methods! All of  such methods are available on the prototype. Although JavaScript can't  find it directly on your object, it goes down the prototype chain and  finds it there, which makes it accessible for you.

#### Q4:What's the output?

```js
String.prototype.giveLydiaPizza = () => {
  return 'Just give Lydia pizza already!';
};

const name = 'Lydia';

console.log(name.giveLydiaPizza())
```

- A: `"Just give Lydia pizza already!"`
- B: `TypeError: not a function`
- C: `SyntaxError`
- D: `undefined`

**Answer**:

Answer: A

`String` is a built-in constructor, that we can add properties to. I just added a method to its prototype. Primitive  strings are automatically converted into a string object, generated by  the string prototype function. So, all strings (string objects) have  access to that method!

#### Q5:What's the output?

```js
function Car() {
  this.make = 'Lamborghini';
  return { make: 'Maserati' };
}

const myCar = new Car();
console.log(myCar.make);
```

- A: `"Lamborghini"`
- B: `"Maserati"`
- C: `ReferenceError`
- D: `TypeError`

**Answer**:

Answer: B

When a constructor function is called with the `new` keyword, it creates an object and sets the `this` keyword to refer to that object. By default, if the constructor  function doesn't explicitly return anything, it will return the newly  created object.

In this case, the constructor function `Car` explicitly returns a new object with `make` set to `"Maserati"`, which overrides the default behavior. Therefore, when `new Car()` is called, the *returned* object is assigned to `myCar`, resulting in the output being `"Maserati"` when `myCar.make` is accessed.

#### Q6:What's the output?

```js
class Dog {
  constructor(name) {
    this.name = name;
  }
}

Dog.prototype.bark = function() {
  console.log(`Woof I am ${this.name}`);
};

const pet = new Dog('Mara');

pet.bark();

delete Dog.prototype.bark;

pet.bark();
```

​    

- A: `"Woof I am Mara"`, `TypeError`
- B: `"Woof I am Mara"`, `"Woof I am Mara"`
- C: `"Woof I am Mara"`, `undefined`
- D: `TypeError`, `TypeError`

**Answer**:

Answer: A

We can delete properties from objects using the `delete` keyword, also on the prototype. By deleting a property on the  prototype, it is not available anymore in the prototype chain. In this  case, the `bark` function is not available anymore on the prototype after `delete Dog.prototype.bark`, yet we still try to access it.

When we try to invoke something that is not a function, a `TypeError` is thrown. In this case `TypeError: pet.bark is not a function`, since `pet.bark` is `undefined`.

#### Q7:With which constructor can we successfully extend the `Dog` class?

```js
class Dog {
  constructor(name) {
    this.name = name;
  }
};

class Labrador extends Dog {
  // 1
  constructor(name, size) {
    this.size = size;
  }
  // 2
  constructor(name, size) {
    super(name);
    this.size = size;
  }
  // 3
  constructor(size) {
    super(name);
    this.size = size;
  }
  // 4
  constructor(name, size) {
    this.name = name;
    this.size = size;
  }

};
```

- A: 1
- B: 2
- C: 3
- D: 4

**Answer**:

Answer: B

In a derived class, you cannot access the `this` keyword before calling `super`. If you try to do that, it will throw a ReferenceError: 1 and 4 would throw a reference error.

With the `super` keyword, we call that parent class's constructor with the given arguments. The parent's constructor receives the `name` argument, so we need to pass `name` to `super`.

The `Labrador` class receives two arguments, `name` since it extends `Dog`, and `size` as an extra property on the `Labrador` class. They both need to be passed to the constructor function on `Labrador`, which is done correctly using constructor 2.

#### Q8:What's the output?

```js
function giveLydiaPizza() {
  return 'Here is pizza!';
}

const giveLydiaChocolate = () =>
  "Here's chocolate... now go hit the gym already.";

console.log(giveLydiaPizza.prototype);
console.log(giveLydiaChocolate.prototype);
```

- A: `{ constructor: ...}` `{ constructor: ...}`
- B: `{}` `{ constructor: ...}`
- C: `{ constructor: ...}` `{}`
- D: `{ constructor: ...}` `undefined`

**Answer**:

Answer: D

Regular functions, such as the `giveLydiaPizza` function, have a `prototype` property, which is an object (prototype object) with a `constructor` property. Arrow functions however, such as the `giveLydiaChocolate` function, do not have this `prototype` property. `undefined` gets returned when trying to access the `prototype` property using `giveLydiaChocolate.prototype`.

#### Q9:What's the output?

```js
class Person {
  constructor() {
    this.name = 'Lydia';
  }
}

Person = class AnotherPerson {
  constructor() {
    this.name = 'Sarah';
  }
};

const member = new Person();
console.log(member.name); 
```

- A: `"Lydia"`
- B: `"Sarah"`
- C: `Error: cannot redeclare Person`
- D: `SyntaxError`

**Answer**:

Answer: B

We can set classes equal to other classes/function constructors. In this case, we set `Person` equal to `AnotherPerson`. The name on this constructor is `Sarah`, so the name property on the new `Person` instance `member` is `"Sarah"`.

#### Q10:What's the output?

```js
class Counter {
  #number = 10

  increment() {
    this.#number++
  }

  getNum() {
    return this.#number
  }
}

const counter = new Counter()
counter.increment()

console.log(counter.#number)
```

- A: `10`
- B: `11`
- C: `undefined`
- D: `SyntaxError`

**Answer**:

Answer: D

In ES2020, we can add private variables in classes by using the `#`. We cannot access these variables outside of the class. When we try to log `counter.#number`, a SyntaxError gets thrown: we cannot access it outside the `Counter` class!

#### Q11:What's the output?

```js
class Bird {
  constructor() {
    console.log("I'm a bird. 🦢");
  }
}

class Flamingo extends Bird {
  constructor() {
    console.log("I'm pink. 🌸");
    super();
  }
}

const pet = new Flamingo();
```

- A: `I'm pink. 🌸`
- B: `I'm pink. 🌸` `I'm a bird. 🦢`
- C: `I'm a bird. 🦢` `I'm pink. 🌸`
- D: Nothing, we didn't call any method

**Answer**:

Answer: B

We create the variable `pet` which is an instance of the `Flamingo` class. When we instantiate this instance, the `constructor` on `Flamingo` gets called. First, `"I'm pink. 🌸"` gets logged, after which we call `super()`. `super()` calls the constructor of the parent class, `Bird`. The constructor in `Bird` gets called, and logs `"I'm a bird. 🦢"`.

#### Q12:What's the output?

```js
class Calc {
	constructor() {
		this.count = 0 
	}

	increase() {
		this.count++
	}
}

const calc = new Calc()
new Calc().increase()

console.log(calc.count)
```

- A: `0`
- B: `1`
- C: `undefined`
- D: `ReferenceError`

**Answer**:

Answer: A

We set the variable `calc` equal to a new instance of the `Calc` class. Then, we instantiate a new instance of `Calc`, and invoke the `increase` method on this instance. Since the count property is within the constructor of the `Calc` class, the count property is not shared on the prototype of `Calc`. This means that the value of count has not been updated for the instance calc points to, count is still `0`.